19 pathways were enriched for Vibrio only. They covered a diverse range
of responses including classic innate immune pathways like Complement,
Toll and NOD; intermediate signaling pathways including P13k and MAPK;
and downstream effector responses like the upregulation of p53 and
apoptosis. The overlaps and relationships between these pathways are
shown in figures 4 and 5.

Primary innate immune responses were Toll and Complement. For Toll, we
observed up-regulation of MyD88, TRAF6, P13K, p38, and AP-1. For
complement we observed up-regulation of A2M, C4BPA, C4BPB, CD46, MASP1,
TFPI, C3, and VWF. The up-regulation of MASP1 indicates activation of
complement via the lectin pathway, while up-regulation of C3 indicates
activation via the alternative pathway. This may indicate some type of
ancestral hybrid of the lectin and alternative pathways leading to
phagocytosis as suggested in Poole et al 2016.

In the reference KEGG pathway for Toll-like receptor signaling, TLRs
activate MyD88, which acts via IRAK1/4, TRAF6, TAK1, MKK3/6 and p-38
leading to AP-1 activation, cytokine secretion, and inflammatory
response. At the e-value and coverage thresholds we used for
candidate-independent annotation we didn’t find TLRs, IRAK, or MKK3/6 in
the genome, but based on a merge of BLAST hits \< e-9 and differentially
expressed transcripts, the Vibrio response appears to include TLR4,
IRAK1/4, MKK4,

Key signaling pathways included P13k and MAPK. The majority of enriched
pathways had clear links to one or both of these signaling pathways.

Both do what? Stimulate p53 and/or apoptosis.

What does Hippo do?

Others worth discussing?

is interesting because Discuss how our results compare to other immune
responses in general. Vidal, Libro etc. Up-regulation of immune genes in
response to *Vibrio* exposure was observed in two of the three primary
innate immune pathways – Toll/TLR and complement, but not the
prophenoloxidase (PO) pathway. NOW DISCUSS GENERAL OVERLAP. These
results differ from those observed for corals exposed to white-band
disease, where little to no differential expression was observed in
these pathways. Now

Now start to discuss key pathways.

For a gene-level comparison to the *Acropora cervicornis* immune
response presented in Libro et al 2013, the UniProt annotations assigned
to the differentially expressed *cervicornis* genes were mapped to the
KEGG ortholog IDs used for *Aiptasia*. Two of the genes identified in
Libro et al 2013 were also up-regulated in *Aiptasia* in response to
*Vibrio* exposure. These are caspase 3 and NADPH oxidase 2.

Genes up-regulated in response to Vibrio exposure were also compared to
the 1400-gene proteomic analysis of Aiptasia immune priming
\[^Brown2015.ris\]. Only one gene was found in common,
fumarylacetoacetase, and they were differentially expressed in opposite
directions.

This lack of overlap could be a limitation of trying to compare
experiments using a variety of annotation methods and IDs.

{It would take about a day to run through the same pipeline as Aiptasia
with cervicornis if you think it would be worthwhile for this
paper.}

## Complement and Coagulation Cascades \[MIGHT BE COOL TO POINT OUT HOW MANY COMPLEMENT GENES ARE IN AIPTASIA VERSUS OVERALL. 

The complement system mediates innate immunity and provides a
nonspecific defense mechanism against pathogens. The three pathways of
complement are the classical pathway, the lectin pathway, and the
alternative pathway. Of these three pathways, the *Aiptasia* response to
*Vibrio* was primarily within the lectin and alternative pathways. The
up-regulation of genes within the complement pathway for both Vibrio and
menthol is consistent with other studies of ???? WHICH CORALS the role
of complement in both symbiosis and immune challenge \[^Poole2016.ris\],
\[^Palmer2012.ris\]. Within the KEGG Coagulation and Complement Cascades
pathway (figure 11) VWF, MASP1/2, and A2M were up-regulated for both
*Vibrio* and menthol, while TFPI, C3, MCP, C4BP were up-regulated only
for *Vibrio*. MASP 1 and 2 are mannan-binding lectin serine proteases
involved in the lectin pathway of the complement cascade \[^NCBI Gene\].
SOME SORT OF CONCLUSION ABOUT COMPLEMENT FUNCTION.

## TNF signaling pathway

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a cytokine involved in apoptosis,
inflammation, and immunity. Quistad et al 2014 \[^Quistad2014.ris\]
found that corals possess more putative TNF receptors than any organism
previously described, including humans, but did not test for their
function in anthozoans. In the TNF Signaling pathway (figure 12),
TNF/LTA, TnF, and Sele were up-regulated for both Vibrio and Menthol.
CASP3, p38, AP-1, CREB, PI3K, c-Jun, Jun, and Mmp15 were up-regulated
for only *Vibrio*. Vcam1 was up only for menthol. Now talk about what
this means in terms of function of pathways. Describe other papers
showing TNF.

## Leukocyte transendothelial migration

## Toll-like receptor signaling pathway

In the Toll-Like Receptor Signaling Pathway (figure 15) MyD88, PI3K,
TRAF6, p38, and AP-1 were up-regulated for Vibrio but not menthol. LBP
was up-regulated for menthol only.

## Osteoclast differentiation

## p53 signaling pathway

## focal adhesion

## TNF signaling pathway
